In this hands on activity, we'll be
using Pandas to read CSV files and
perform various queries on them.
Pandas is a data analysis library for
Python.
First, we'll create a new
Jupyter Python Notebook.
Next, we will use Pandas to read
a CSV file into a DataFrame.
We'll then view the contents of the
DataFrame and see how to filter rows and
columns of it.
Next, we will perform average and
sum operations on the DataFrame.
And finally, show how to merge two
DataFrames by joining on a single column.
Let's begin.
We'll start by creating
a new iPython notebook.
Clicking on New and
selecting Python 3 under notebooks.
First, we'll import the Pandas
library by writing import pandas.
Remember that in iPython notebooks,
to run a command,
we hold down the shift key and hit Enter.
Next, let's read buyclicks.csv
into a Pandas DataFrame.
We'll put it in a variable
called buyclicksDF.
We'll read it using pandas.read_csv,
and we'll read the buy-clicks.csv file.
We can see the contents of the file by
just running the variable by itself.
And notice that the file has many rows and
then iPython truncates this,
the dot, dot, dot.
We can see only the top five
rows by calling .head(5).
Next, let's look at only two
columns in the buyclicks data.
Let's look at price and user ID.
We can do these by first entering
buyclicks DataFrame in the same text for
specifying only certain columns to
show is open bracket open bracket and
then the name of the columns
you want to view.
So, want your price and
user ID, and again,
we only want to see the first five rows,
so we'll do .head(5).
Now, let's query the buyclicks data for
only the prices less than 3.
First, we'll enter buyclicksDF,
One square bracket,
to filter our particular column,
we enter buyclicksDF and then column name.
Now, we specify the limit of
the query by entering <3.
This shows first five rows where
the price is less than three.
We can also perform aggregate
operations on Panda's DataFrames.
We can sum all the price data by
entering buyclicksDF['price'].sum.
Another aggregate operation we can
perform is looking at the average.
Let's look at the average for price.
The function is called mean.
So, once your buyclicksDF ['price'].mean.
Can also join two DataFrames
on a single column.
First, let's read in another
CSV into a different DataFrame.
We'll read in adclicks.csv.
So we'll says adclicksDF
= pandas.read_csv,
we'll say ('ad-clicks.csv').
To verify that we read this data
successfully, let's look at the contents.
Now, let's combine
the buyclicks DataFrame and
the adclicks data frame
on the user ID call.
We'll put the result in the new
DataFrame called mergeDF.
So we'll say mergeDF = adclicksDF.merge
Then, we need to say which
DataFrame we're merging with,
buyclicksDF, and
the column that we're merging on.
So we'll say on='userid'.
Finally, we can look at the contents
with this merged DataFrame.